It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.

However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is considered the rightful property of some one or other of their daughters.

"My dear Mr. Bennet," said his lady to him one day, "have you heard that Netherfield Park is let at last?"

Mr. Bennet replied that he had not.

"But it is," returned she; "for Mrs. Long has just been here, and she told me all about it."

Mr. Bennet made no answer.

"Do not you want to know who has taken it?" cried his wife impatiently.

"You want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it."

This was invitation enough.

"Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is taken by a young man of large fortune from the north of England; that he came down on Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and was so much delighted with it, that he agreed with Mr. Morris immediately; that he is to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of his servants are to be in the house by the end of next week."

"What is his name?"

"Bingley."

"Is he married or single?"

"Oh! Single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of large fortune; four or five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our girls!"

Mr. Bennet made no reply.

"You must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them."

"Is that his design in settling here?"

"Design! Nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely that he may fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him as soon as he comes."

"I see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go, or you may send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley might like you the best of the party."

"My dear, you flatter me. I certainly have had my share of beauty, but I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now. When a woman has five grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty."

"In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of."

"But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he comes into the neighbourhood."

"It is more than I engage for, I assure you."

"But consider your daughters. Only think what an establishment it would be for one of them. Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to go, merely on that account; for in general you know they visit no new-comers. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for us to visit him if you do not."

"You are over scrupulous, surely. I dare say Mr. Bingley will be very glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to assure him of my hearty consent to his marrying whichever he chooses of the girls."

"Though I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy."

"I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better than the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so good-humoured as Lydia. But you are always giving her the preference."

"They have none of them much to recommend them," replied he; "they are all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has something more of quickness than her sisters."

"Mr. Bennet, how can you abuse your own children in such way? You take delight in vexing me. You have no compassion for my poor nerves."

"You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves. They are my old friends. I have heard you mention them with consideration these twenty years at least."

"Ah, you do not know what I suffer."

"But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood."

"It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not visit them."

"Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, I will visit them all."

Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour, reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty years had been insufficient to make his wife understand his character. Her mind was less difficult to develop. She was a woman of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain temper. When she was discontented, she fancied herself nervous. The business of her life was to get her daughters married; its solace was visiting and news.

The evening soon arrived when Mr. Bennet was to pay his visit to Mr. Bingley. He had always intended to visit him, though till the last moment it had not been openly acknowledged. The ladies watched for his return, impatient for the information he might bring.

His wife had calculated the days with great anxiety, and when he finally walked in, her eagerness to know the outcome was evident.

“Well, my dear,” said Mrs. Bennet as he entered, “have you made your visit?”

Mr. Bennet sat down and answered calmly, “I have.”

“Oh, you dear Mr. Bennet! How good it was of you! And what did he say? What is he like? Is he agreeable?”

“He seems very agreeable,” replied Mr. Bennet. “I have no objection to his character.”

“Oh, my dear, I was sure you loved your girls too much to neglect such an acquaintance! But did he ask about our daughters?”

“No such inquiries were made. But I did mention having five daughters, and that seemed to surprise him.”

Mrs. Bennet was all impatience. “Oh, Mr. Bennet, how can you be so provoking! You know I was counting on your introducing us.”

“I dare say Mr. Bingley will be very glad to meet you all at the next assembly.”

The anticipation in the household grew, especially among the young ladies. Jane, the eldest, was of a particularly gentle disposition and was less vocal in her excitement, while Lydia and Kitty could barely contain themselves. Elizabeth, though amused, was eager to meet Mr. Bingley but did not display the same urgency as her younger sisters.

At last, the much-anticipated Meryton ball arrived. The Bennets, dressed in their finest, arrived to find the ballroom abuzz with excitement. Mr. Bingley was there, along with his sisters and a tall, proud-looking man whom nobody recognized at first. It was soon whispered about that this was Mr. Bingley’s friend, Mr. Darcy, a man of immense fortune.

Mr. Bingley was immediately taken with Jane, dancing with her twice and speaking warmly to those around him. His affable nature won over many of the attendees, and Mrs. Bennet’s delight was evident.

However, Mr. Darcy did not make the same impression. His aloof manner and unwillingness to dance with anyone outside his immediate circle quickly made him the subject of whispered discussions.

Elizabeth, having been refused a dance by Mr. Darcy, laughed at the slight, though she could not help but feel a touch of wounded pride. “I could easily forgive his pride,” she remarked to her friend Charlotte Lucas, “if he had not mortified mine.”

Charlotte, ever pragmatic, replied, “Pride has often its excuse. Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously.”

Meanwhile, Jane and Mr. Bingley continued their acquaintance, much to Mrs. Bennet’s satisfaction. The evening ended with much speculation, especially about Mr. Darcy’s character and the growing attachment between Jane and Mr. Bingley.

Over the following weeks, invitations were exchanged, and visits were made. Mr. Bingley was a frequent guest at Longbourn, and it was evident that he greatly admired Jane.

Mr. Darcy, on the other hand, maintained his reserved demeanor, though he could not help but notice Elizabeth more and more. He found himself drawn to her intelligence and wit, though he struggled against the attraction.

The neighborhood was soon alive with news when an officer’s regiment was stationed nearby, bringing a new source of excitement for the young ladies, particularly Lydia and Kitty. Among the officers, a certain Mr. Wickham caught Elizabeth’s eye. His charming manner and easy conversation were a stark contrast to Mr. Darcy’s stiffness.

One evening, during a gathering, Mr. Wickham confided in Elizabeth about his past, claiming that Mr. Darcy had wronged him grievously by denying him a promised position. Elizabeth, already inclined to dislike Mr. Darcy, readily believed Wickham’s story.

Meanwhile, at Netherfield, Mr. Bingley’s sisters, especially Miss Bingley, were growing uneasy about his affection for Jane. They believed her connections were too inferior and began devising ways to separate them.

As events unfolded, Elizabeth’s feelings toward Mr. Darcy remained unchanged, and her growing friendship with Mr. Wickham only reinforced her prejudices.
